# CSC47400 Assignment 2
## Group 5: Sakib Amin, Andrei Skipor, Omar Stevens, Chelsea Lantigua, Crystal Yang
## Objective:
By using visualization tools such as Vegalite and Python, we were able to create choropleth maps in order to visualize our collected data of unemployment and education rates. Our dataset of unemployment consists of the unemployment rates from year 2000 to year 2020 across the United States, as well as the raw data for the number of people who were employed and unemployed throughout those years. We wanted to compare this to an external source of education rates to discover if there was a correlation between the two datasets. Our dataset of education shows the different levels of education ranging from percentages of adults having less than a highschool diploma to percentages of adults having completed four years of college or higher. This dataset also shows the raw data for the number of adults with the type of education completed from year 1970 to year 2000. By creating a surprise map using Bayesian Surprise with these sources, we are able to highlight unexpected events and propose a conclusion between the two datasets.
## Sources:
The three datasets we used were all prepared by the United States Department of Agriculture, USDA. The education dataset is titled “Educational attainment for adults age 25 and older for the U.S., States, and counties, 1970-2019”. The unemployment dataset is titled, “Unemployment and median household income for the United States, States, and counties, 2000-20”. The population by county dataset is titled, “Decennial census population counts for the U.S., States, and counties, 1990-2020”. The link to download these datasets is https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/county-level-data-sets/download-data/. 
